Create testing documentation for tardigrade-ci (#134)
plus3it/tardigrade-ci: TESTING.md

# Tardigrade-ci Testing Documentation

Testing tardigrade-ci implementation with various setup on local environment.

## Testing

This project can be utilized one of two ways, via docker or via a Makefile include.

### Test Setup

Configure or run the following script to setup a test project environment:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

TESTDIR=$(mktemp --tmpdir -d tardigrade-ci.XXXXXXXXXX)
cd $TESTDIR
git init
echo "FROM plus3it/tardigrade-ci:latest" > Dockerfile
echo "SHELL := /bin/bash\n" > Makefile
echo 'include $(shell test -f .tardigrade-ci || curl -sSL -o .tardigrade-ci "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/plus3it/tardigrade-ci/master/bootstrap/Makefile.bootstrap"; echo .tardigrade-ci)' >> Makefile
echo '# tardigrade-ci' > .gitignore
echo '.tardigrade-ci' >> .gitignore
echo 'tardigrade-ci/' >> .gitignore

docker pull python:3
docker pull plus3it/tardigrade-ci:latest
```

### Via Docker (non-tardigrade-ci image)

In a non-tardigrade-ci container, the first condition in `Makefile.bootstrap` ought to fail, resulting in the auto-init logic creating the `tardigrade-ci/` directory.

> 1. Environment setup should contain `test-project/` described in the [Test Setup](#test-setup) section.

Reviewer: Using the `TESTDIR` variable, this is no longer `test-project/`... It should be changed throughout the doc:

```suggestion
1. Environment setup should contain `"${TESTDIR:?}"` described in the [Test Setup](#test-setup) section.
```

Syntax: `"${...:?}"` checks that the var is set, non-empty and fails with a sensible message if not...

```
$ echo ${TESTDIR:?}
-bash: TESTDIR: parameter null or not set
```

```bash
docker run --rm -v $PWD:/workdir --workdir=/workdir --entrypoint make plus3it/tardigrade-ci:latest clean
```

5. Go to parent directory of `test-project/` and remove the directory to delete testing environment:

```bash
cd .. && rm -rf test-project/
```

### Via Makefile (`tardigrade-ci/` directory does not exist in root)

This option uses `make` to invoke the targets directly in your shell, instead of within the container environment. You may invoke any `make` target directly, e.g. `make ec/lint`, but be aware if you do so, the make target will attempt to install the tools it requires to your system.

1. Environment setup should contain `test-project/` described in the [Test Setup](#test-setup) section.

2. In the `test-project/` directory, run the following command:

```bash
make help
```

3. This should result in the creation of both `.tardigrade-ci` and `tardigrade-ci/`.

4. Run the following command to clean up the tardigrade-ci files:

```bash
make clean
```

5. Go to parent directory of `test-project/` and remove the directory to delete testing environment:

```bash
cd .. && rm -rf test-project/
```

### Via Makefile (`tardigrade-ci/` directory exists in root)

> When the bootstrap Makefile detects the `tardigrade-ci/` in the root directory, it will include the tardigrade-ci Makefile from the user-managed clone into the current working project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the bootstrap Makefile detects the directory `tardigrade-ci/` in a parent of the current project directory, it will "include" that tardigrade-ci Makefile, instead of re-cloning `tardigrade-ci/`.
```

> 1. If the directory doesn't already exist, clone the `tardigrade-ci/` repo in root directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the directory doesn't already exist, clone the `tardigrade-ci/` repo in the test project's parent directory:
```

```bash

> git clone https://github.com/plus3it/tardigrade-ci.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd "${TESTDIR:?}" && cd ..
git clone https://github.com/plus3it/tardigrade-ci.git
```

```

2. Environment setup should contain `test-project/` described in the [Test Setup](#test-setup) section.

3. In the `test-project/` directory, run the following command:

```bash
make help
```

4. This should result in the creation of only the `.tardigrade-ci` (bootstrap Makefile) file.

5. Run the following command to clean up the tardigrade-ci files:

```bash
make clean
```

6. Go to parent directory of `test-project/` and remove the directory to delete testing environment:

```bash

> cd .. && rm -rf test-project/ && rm -rf tardigrade-ci/

Reviewer: `rm` allows specifying multiple values to remove, no need to call it twice:

```suggestion
cd .. && rm -rf "${TESTDIR:?}" tardigrade-ci/
```

# Tardigrade-ci Testing Documentation

Testing tardigrade-ci implementation with various setup on local environment.

## Testing

This project can be utilized one of two ways, via docker or via a Makefile include.

### Test Setup

Configure or run the following script to setup a test project environment:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

TESTDIR=$(mktemp --tmpdir -d tardigrade-ci.XXXXXXXXXX)
cd $TESTDIR
git init
echo "FROM plus3it/tardigrade-ci:latest" > Dockerfile

> echo "SHELL := /bin/bash\n" > Makefile

Reviewer: Running through this, and noticed this one issue, the `\n` here causes an error:

```suggestion
echo "SHELL := /bin/bash" > Makefile
```

# tardigrade-ci testing documentation

Testing tardigrade-ci implementation with various setup on local environment.

## Testing

This project can be utilized one of two ways, via docker or via a Makefile include.

### Via Docker (non-tardigrade-ci image)

In a non-tardigrade-ci container, the second condition in Makefile.bootstrap ought to fail, resulting in the auto-init logic creating the tardigrade-ci/ directory.

1. Run the following bash script or manually create a test-project directory with the following configurations:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

> mkdir test-project

Reviewer: I'd suggest setting up in TMPDIR for this testing, and using `mktemp` to create the test directory.

```suggestion
TESTDIR=$(mktemp --tmpdir -d tardigrade-ci.XXXXXXXXXX)
```

and then references to `test-project` should be changed to `"$TESTDIR"`

cd test-project
git init
echo "FROM plus3it/tardigrade-ci:0.8.0" > Dockerfile
echo "SHELL := /bin/bash\n" > Makefile
echo 'include $(shell test -f .tardigrade-ci || curl -sSL -o .tardigrade-ci "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/plus3it/tardigrade-ci/master/bootstrap/Makefile.bootstrap"; echo .tardigrade-ci)' >> Makefile
echo '# tardigrade-ci' > .gitignore
echo '.tardigrade-ci' >> .gitignore

> echo 'tardigrade-ci/' >> .gitignore

Reviewer: I think we can add a couple steps to pull the docker containers we're referencing...

```suggestion
echo 'tardigrade-ci/' >> .gitignore

docker pull python:3
docker pull plus3it/tardigrade-ci:latest
```

```

2. Run the following docker command in the test-project directory:

```bash
docker run --rm -v $PWD:/workdir --workdir=/workdir --entrypoint make python:3 help
```

3. This should result in the creation of both .tardigrade-ci and /tardigrade-ci

4. Run the following command to remove the tardigrade-ci subdirectory and bootstrap Makefile:

```bash
docker run --rm -v $PWD:/workdir --workdir=/workdir --entrypoint make python:3 clean
```

> 5. Go to parent directory of test-project and remove the directory for initial setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Go to parent directory of `test-project/` and remove the directory for initial setup:
```

```bash

> rm -rf test-project/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd .. && rm -rf test-project/
```

```

### Via Docker (tardigrade-ci image)

> Running a tardigrade-ci container should automatically put the user in developer mode and create only the .tardigrade-ci file in the local environment.

Reviewer: > Running a tardigrade-ci container should automatically put the user in developer mode

This is not quite correct... When running the tardigrade-ci container, you get the version of tardigrade-ci from the container. "Developer mode" is when it uses tardigrade-ci/ from a sibling directory in your local environment, so as a tardigrade-ci developer you can make changes there, then test them quickly in another project. Maybe we need to note this as a third mode, "container mode"?

```suggestion
Running a tardigrade-ci container will use the version of `tardigrade-ci` present in the container, and so will create only the `.tardigrade-ci` file in the `test-project/` directory.
```

> 1. Environment setup should contain the tardigrade-ci project in root directory as well as thee test-project from previous steps.

Reviewer: > should contain the tardigrade-ci project in root directory

Per the above comment, only the `test-project/` setup is necessary...

```suggestion
1. Environment setup should contain `test-project/` described in the [Test Setup](#test-setup) section.
```

> 2. In the test-project directory, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `test-project/` directory, run the following command:
```

```bash
docker run --rm -v $PWD:/workdir --workdir=/workdir --entrypoint make plus3it/tardigrade-ci:latest help
```

> 3. This should result in only the .tardigrade-ci file being created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. This should result in only the `.tardigrade-ci` file being created.
```

> 4. Clean up the environment by removing the tardigrade-ci project and test-project directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Clean up the environment by removing the `test-project/` directory
```

### Via Makefile

> This option uses `make` to invoke the targets. However, you may invoke any make target directly, e.g. `make ec/lint`. Be aware if you do so, the make target will attempt to install the tools it requires to your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option uses `make` to invoke the targets directly in your shell, instead of within the container environment. You may invoke any `make` target directly, e.g. `make ec/lint`, but be aware if you do so, the make target will attempt to install the tools it requires to your system.
```

> 1. Run the following bash script or manually create a test-project directory with the following configurations:

Reviewer: Let's change this to refer to the new `Test Setup` section, and remove the script below

```bash
#!/bin/bash

mkdir test-project
cd test-project
git init
echo "FROM plus3it/tardigrade-ci:0.8.0" > Dockerfile
echo "SHELL := /bin/bash\n" > Makefile
echo 'include $(shell test -f .tardigrade-ci || curl -sSL -o .tardigrade-ci "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/plus3it/tardigrade-ci/master/bootstrap/Makefile.bootstrap"; echo .tardigrade-ci)' >> Makefile
echo '# tardigrade-ci' > .gitignore
echo '.tardigrade-ci' >> .gitignore
echo 'tardigrade-ci/' >> .gitignore
```

> 2. In the test-project direcotry, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `test-project/` directory, run the following command:
```

```bash
make help
```

> 3. This should result in the creation of both .tardigrade-ci and /tardigrade-ci. If the tardigrade-ci project was in the parent folder of the current test-project directory, then only the .tardigrade-ci should be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. This should result in the creation of both `.tardigrade-ci` and `tardigrade-ci/`.
```

> If the tardigrade-ci project was in the parent folder of the current test-project directory, then only the .tardigrade-ci should be created.

this part should be a separate, explicit test. one test without the `tardigrade-ci/` project in a parent/sibling directory, and one test with it present.
